---
layout: post
title: App Ideas
author: 
source: 
permalink: appIdeas

---

The iPad will be released to the public in a few days and that will be followed by the first batch of new applications. I am sure some of the ideas that I present are already in works, either at Apple or at Apple developers. Here are some predictions.

### Presentations without the Slide format
Slides have been used for presentations for a long time. Earlier with overhead projectors and now with presentation applications like PowerPoint and Keynote. Apple has made a very nice iPad app for Keynote. However, the app continues to use the slide format, although the device has much more potential to create and display content without using slides. An iPad connected to a projector can act like the [CNN’s Magic Wall](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-Touch_Collaboration_Wall). I imagine a presenter working on his/her iPad with multi-touch, stretching, squeezing, flipping, sliding diagram objects with both hands and that being presented to audience on a projector. The iPad is perfect for both creating and presenting such presentations. The slides can still be used as launchpad for separate chunks of presentation material. The animations today are on the slides, but they should actually be away from the slides. Slides should be used only for text based content.

### TV Remote Pad
While there is nice little Apple TV remote application for iPhone, I am sure there will be one in the making for iPad. However, the iPad has more potential to be used as the touch-screen TV accessory. I can imagine an animated live TV guide running on iPad that you can use not just to check the schedules but also to change the channels. You could ‘preview’ channels before changing channels to avoid those moments when you are flipping channels in front of whole family and some program pops up that you don’t want everybody to watch. You could use the iPad for browsing the movies, TV Shows, or music to buy on apple TV, but integrated in such as way that the actual download happens on Apple TV. It could be used as an additional speaker for TV. You can even keep the TV on mute while hearing stuff on the iPad, either at low volume or using head-phones. To summarize, the iPad can act as a touch screen TV companiion accessory, similar to regular remote, but much better than that.

### The App Sheets
Apple has made the Numbers app for iPad and this single app has a potential for replacing a lot of apps. As we know, the Numbers is far better in interface than Excel. The main strong point in its interface is the ability to have multiple fixed sized tables on a single sheet. What this means, is that we no longer have to worry about the weird formatting that we get when we create multiple disconnected tables on a traditional spreadsheet like excel. This feature also means that we could potentially create app-like beautiful interfaces on Numbers sheets. I see the potential of having various converters, simple finances, to-do lists, time-tables etc on the numbers sheets that could replace a lot of apps, without losing the elegance and style of real apps. This will be somewhat like the iphone web-apps, but for the numerical or tabular data. They will also be much simpler to create than web-apps and also just like web-apps, won’t need any app-store approval. I don’t know at this point, who Numbers handles browsing and editing of cells. Does tapping on any cell automatically puts in edit mode with a keyboard presented ? If there is some way of stopping this for certain cells, (most of the static and decorative table cells) it would be very helpful.